## Discussion {#discussion}

In this paper, we evaluated the ability and accuracy of metagenome-assembled genomes (MAGs) to correctly recover mobile genetic elements (i.e. genomic islands and plasmids) from metagenomic samples across different tools used to assemble and bin MAGs. 

Overall, the best assembler-binner pair was megahit-DASTOOL in term of both chromosomal coverage (94.3%) and bin purity (1). Looking at genomes with the lowest coverage, the 3 Streptococcus genomes were particularly problematic, likely due to their similarity, with the best recovery for each ranging from 1.7% to 47.49%. This suggest that MAGs might not be able to distinguish between closely related species (COMMENT: Point 1, MAGs cannot distinguish closely related species). While CONCOCT performed significantly worse compared to the other binners, we did notice that CONCOCT seems to display a trend of generating lots of small partial bins. Perhaps CONCOCT bins might be able to distinguish between closely related species to a higher resolution (COMMENT: Small partial bins… what does it mean overall. is this assumption correct? Would it be able to distinguish closely related species?)

While the overall recovery of chromosomes was okay, we were interested in MAG’s ability to correctly bin mobile genetic elements due to their importance in the functions and spread of pathogenic traits such as AMR and virulence. In term of plasmids, a very small proportion of plasmids were correctly binned regardless of the method (<33% at best). Similarly, the same trend exists for genomic islands (<43.3%). This poor result is not unexpected as genomic islands and plasmids have divergent composition features relative to the chromosomes. Furthermore, the difference between the percentages suggest that binning plasmids are harder than GIs. This difference might be due to the problem of plasmid assembly. Therefore, the binning efficiency might improve if we use an assembler targeted at assembling plasmids [@doi:10.1099/mgen.0.000128].

Looking at predicted gene content, our best assembler-binner pair produced a similar number of predicted ORFs as our reference genomes. (interestingly we still missed a bunch of AMR genes. perhaps theses predicted ORFs are fragmented? idk need ideas)

Due to the importance of mobile genetic elements to disseminate clinically relevant antimicrobial resistance genes and virulence factors, we explored whether or not MAGs can be used to provide useful lateral gene transfer insights. 

With respect to AMR genes, MAGs were able to recover roughly half of all AMR genes present in our reference genome. The correct bins were assigned for majority of the chromosomally located AMR genes (81%). The accuracy of chromosomal AMR genes were as expected given the accuracy of MAGs to recover chromosomes as discussed previously. However, while MAGs were able to detect all of plasmid-born AMR genes, none of these were placed in any of the bins. We specifically included a few high threat AMR genes in our dataset: namely KPC and OXA, which are plasmid borne carbapenemases of increasing prevalence in the clinics that are rendering our last resort antibiotics useless. These genes were successfully detected from the metagenomics assembly, but they were not assigned to a bin. This could mean a limited ability for MAGs to be used in the public health research to pinpoint the lateral transfer of AMR genes and to conduct epidemiological analysis (COMMENT: does this make sense?). 

Virulence factors had shown a similar trend as AMR genes, recovering ~60% of virulence factors present in the reference genome. Interestingly, while the detection of virulence factors is better than AMR genes, the binning accuracy was worse, with more being present in the unbinned fraction. Previous studies has found that VFs are disproportionally present on GIs[@doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0008094], which might be the reason to why the binning accuracy was worse compared to AMR genes. 

Lastly, previous works have shown that AMR genes that are on mobile genetic elements disproportionally encode secrete proteins. Given that the recovery of plasmid-borne genes were not great, we asked if MAGs would affect the ability to predict the subcellular localization of proteins. We found that the proportion of predicted localizations were very similar between MAGs and our reference genomes, suggesting that there is not a significant penalty to use MAGs as input for protein localization predictions. 
